Start with docs. (#44)
FAIRmat-NFDI/pynxtools-spm: docs/explanation/reader-orchestra.md

# Scanning Probe Microscopy (SPM)

Scanning Probe Microscopy (SPM) is a high resolution imaging technique used to study material surface at nano scale. The technique can take on a wide range form of experiments categorized by operating environment (e.g., ambient, vacuum) and setup, type of interaction between prob and specimen, number of probe and actuation modes, etc. Therefore, there are many sub-techniques, like STM (Scanning Tunneling Microscopy), AFM (Atomic Force Microscopy), STS (Scanning Probe Spectroscopy). These complex experiments require complex setup of instruments provided by different technology companies which turns out diverse data model (mostly unstructured) and data format. How can we compare the diverged data model and data format? Can we interpret the data in a common data model and format accessible to all SPM community? Does the proposed data model follow FAIR data principle?

> We have developed community driven standard application definition, using NeXus[link_goes_here] data format, for SPM[link_goes_here] subdomains e.g., STM[link_goes here], STS[link_goes_here], AFM[link_goes_here] and a few base classes to describe instrument components (e.g. Lock-in[link-goes-here], Cantilever[link-goes-here]). Based on our data model, we build the data workflow that connects the data from experiment generated raw files to the standard application definition inscribed in a HDF5 file (as we are using NeXus data format in HDF5 file, later on we also call it NeXus file with '.nxs' extension).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have used the NeXus[link_goes_here] data format to develop community-driven standard application definitions for SPM[link_goes_here] subdomains, including STM[link_goes here], STS[link_goes_here], and AFM[link_goes_here], and base classes to describe instrument components (e.g. Lock-in amplifiers[link-goes-here], Cantilever[link-goes-here]). Based on this data model, we build a data workflow that converts the data from raw files generated in experiments to HDF5 files that follow the standard application definitions (as we are using NeXus data format in HDF5 files, we also call these files with a '.nxs' extension "NeXus files" in this documentation).
```

Links are going nowhere at the moment and need to be filled with actual URLS

TODO: mention one can use `NXspm` for any sub technique do not warranty the validation of the parsed data.

## __SPM Readers__
The SPM reader(s) is plugin of material science reader framework `pynxtools`[`link_goes_here`] and anchors a bundle of readers from STM, STS and AFM. The prime purpose of the readers is to transform data from measurement files into by the SPM community supported schema (NeXus applications and base classes) which allows experimentalists to store, organize, search, analyze, and share experimental data in NOMAD (as plugin `pynxtools-spm` is integrated with [NOMAD](https://nomad-lab.eu/nomad-lab/)) research data management (RDM) platform. 

> The SPM reader is plugin of material science reader framework `pynxtools`[`link_goes_here`] and anchors a bundle of readers from STM, STS and AFM. The readers follow a [common structure](link_to_common_code_structure) that shall allow to extend reader orchestra by including new readers of different SPM sub-technique (e.g. SPSTM). For each type of techniques (e.g., STM, STS, and AFM), there might be multiple vendors (e.g., Nanonis, Omicron) and each vendor favors different data format and data model. Therefore, each reader is designed to be modular and configurable to adapt different data format and data model. These allows to integrate more and more data format and data model from different vendors without changing the reader structure.

Reviewer: This is a repitition of what you said in the previous paragraph. I think you can remove that first sentence.

> To understand the reader structure, one might start understanding the design pattern of the application definitions `NXspm[link_goes_here]`, `NXstm[link_goes_here]`, `NXsts[link_goes_here]`, and `NXafm[link_goes_here]` on the [FAIRmat NeXus Proposal](https://fairmat-nfdi.github.io/nexus_definitions/) page or in the [GitHub repository].

Reviewer: Links are broken / not given at all.

> ### __Reader Members of `pynxtools-spm` reader orchestra__

Reviewer 2: #60

`pynxtools-spm` includes three readers:

- STS reader
- STM reader
- AFM reader

The `section`, `sub_sections`, and `quantities` refer to the root level entity (behaves like a `group`), `group`, and `field` of the NeXus definition, respectively. The given schema ELN can be read as follows, `stm` ELN has direct fields `attribute`, `definition` and direct groups `Instrument`, `Sample`, with each group optionally containing nested `group`s and `field`s.

This type of ELN needs to be used if the reader is run from the command line. To know which fields and groups refer to which type of data, one needs to read the NeXus definition on the [FAIRmat NeXus Proposal](https://fairmat-nfdi.github.io/nexus_definitions/classes/contributed_definitions/NXsts.html#nxsts) page or in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/FAIRmat-NFDI/nexus_definitions/blob/fairmat/contributed_definitions/NXsts.nxdl.xml).

#### __STS reader__

> The `STS` reader builds on the [NXsts](link from nexus-fairmat page) application definition and needs an experimental file, a config file and a eln (eln stands for electronic lab notebook) file to transform the experiment generated data (from raw files) and user provided data (from ELN) into NeXus file [NXsts](link from nexus-fairmat page) according to the application concepts.

Reviewer 2: Addressed, and see #60

#### __STM Reader__

> The STM reader is a part of `pynxtools-spm` package and builds on the [NXstm](link from nexus-fairmat page) application definition and needs an experimental file, a config file and a eln (eln stands for electronic lab notebook) file to transform the experiment generated data (from raw files) and user provided data (from ELN) into NeXus file according to the [NXstm](link from nexus-fairmat page) application concepts.

Reviewer: This is just repeated information. Can we not just write once above that each reader has the same input format?

Reviewer 2: #60
